# About This Vault

This vault is a template vault which mirrors what @demophoon uses on the daily. It is based off of the [Johnny Decimal](https://johnnydecimal.com/) system for organizing notes. The gist is that every note should fall into an abstract category and have an incrementing id associated with the note. No more than 10 general categories may exist and each general category may have 10 subcategories. This vault contains a basic structure and automation for following this format which you may find helpful.

## Why not Zettelkasten?

Zettelkasten aims to allow for the flexability of adding context to individual thoughts that have already been written down by creating unique identifiers which are children of the parent thought. Most modern Zettelkasten uses timestamps as the files unique identifier which can feel awkward when adding these children thoughts as you lose the temporal context of these notes unless you have massive identifiers.

In Johnny Decimal these identifiers are designed to be short and can often be memorable in the short term. This can be useful for easy categorization while taking notes as well as quickly linking items outside of your notetaking system. For example, tagging emails with an ID which refers to a note that contains context to that email.

# Getting Started

This note is in the `0x Meta` directory which is a bunch of utility notes which describe the vault as well as add custom functionality to this vault through templates and dashboards. If you have additional helpers you would like to add, the abstract category numbers should be between 04 and 08.

All notes should follow the format `<Category Group>/<Abstract Category>/<ID> Note name`.

## Creating a New Category Group

A Category Group is a folder at the root of this vault and follows the format `<tens_digit>x Description`. For example creating a Category Group for `Projects`, create a folder called `1x Projects` next to the `0x Meta` folder. There should only be ever 10 Category Groups according to Johnny Decimal, and while I personally have not hit this limit this vault is setup to allow for any number of Category Groups.

## Creating a New Abstract Category

An Abstract Category is the folder which contain your notes, each note prefixed with a Johnny Decimal ID. The folder name is the first part of the Johnny Decimal ID and a descriptor. The format of the abstract category folder is `<Category ID> Description`. For example, `Kitchen` could be a category under `Projects` and its path would look like `1x Projects/10 Kitchen`. Every Category Group contains at most 10 Abstract Categories. This limit is more likely to be hit as it can be bounded by the next Category Group so make them as generic as you can. If you do find yourself at this limit you can also use letters in your Abstract Category IDs to extend out the Abstract Category limit (e.g. `1A` or `1B`).

## Creating New Notes

This vault has been configured to create new notes in the `09 Unsorted` Abstract Category. This is mainly a landing zone for new notes before they are automatically refiled described within [[00.01 Templates]]. When you create your groups they will automatically show up as targets when creating new notes. Once a file name and category have been chosen the ID will automatically be prepended to the note starting at `01` and counting up from the last note in the Abstract Category + 1.

> [!INFO]
>  Notes with ID `00` are reserved for index pages for a category.

New notes can also be created within each folder within the sidebar which will automatically file it underneath that category with the correct templates.

### Adding Child Notes

If you would like to track a new note which should be a child of an existing note you can create a folder within an Abstract Category with the note's full ID and a description. This will cause the category to show up when creating a new note.

An example of this would be `Baking` underneath the `Kitchen` category. Creating a child group of note would look like `1x Projects/10 Kitchen/10.01 Baking`.

## Adding Templates

Templates are stored in `02 Templates/02.00 partials` and should share the same name as the Abstract Category. Any new notes in the matching Abstract Category will inherit this template.
A recipe for our baking example would have a template called `0x Meta/02 Templates/02.00 Partials/10.01 Baking`. Templates also have some more advanced options which are all detailed within [[00.01 Templates]].

# Table of Contents

## 0X: Meta
- 00: Index and Vault Documentation
- 01: Dashboards
- 02: Templates
- 03: Attachments
- 04-08: _Reserved for future use_
- 09: Unsorted (_Reserved as a landing pad for new notes in the vault. See [[00.01 Templates]] for more information_)
